{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Optima-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Optima-Regular;\f2\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs56 \cf0 MacCRO X\

\fs28 Copyright \'a9 2001, 2002, 2003 by Philip Derrin <narge@users.sourceforge.net>\
Copyright \'a9 2002 by Rafal Kolanski <xaphiosis@users.sourceforge.net>\

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b About this Package\

\f1\b0 \
This is an alpha testing release of MacCRO X. It is incomplete. Important features are missing, and there are probably bugs. Not everything works, and things that do work may not work correctly. If you have any problems, or if you have any improvements to suggest, please contact the authors.\
\
Unlike the original MacCRO, this is free software. It is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License; for further information, start MacCRO and select "Show License" from the Help menu or read the License.rtf file included in this package.\
\

\f0\b About MacCRO X
\f1\b0 \
\
MacCRO X is an application which allows you to use your computer's sound input device as an audio-frequency oscilloscope and spectrum analyser. As the name suggests, it runs only on Mac OS X (though an X11 port using GNUstep is in the works).\
\

\f0\b Contacting the Authors
\f1\b0 \
\
If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions about MacCRO X, or if you wish to contribute in some way, please tell us. For general questions about MacCRO X, contact Philip Derrin at narge@users.sourceforge.net. For questions about the GNUstep port (Scope.app), contact Rafal Kolanski at xaphiosis@users.sourceforge.net.\
\
Alternatively, you can use the bug report, support request and feature request tracking services at SourceForge, where MacCRO X is hosted. These can be found at http://sourceforge.net/projects/scopeapp/ (click on the "Bugs", "Support" or "RFE" links at the top of the page). New releases of MacCRO X, and the latest development version (via CVS), can be found on the same page.\
\

\f0\b System Requirements
\f1\b0 \
\
\'a5 Mac OS X 10.2 ("Jaguar") or later, and a Mac which will run it. There's no major reason it won't run on earlier Mac OS X versions, so if you have an older version and want to use MacCRO, contact me and I'll fix it for you.\
\'a5 A sound input device. Most Macs have these built in, but some PowerMac G4 machines (like mine) do not; if you have such a machine, you'll need a USB sound input, a PCI sound card, or some other form of input device supported by OS X. If you have multiple devices, select the one you want to use in the Sound panel in System Preferences.\
\

\f0\b For MacCRO PPC Users
\f1\b0 \
\
The interface of MacCRO X is similar to the original MacCRO; if you have used that program, this should be familiar. There are a few minor differences; the most obvious is that the controls are now in a separate window. Also, you don't have to pay for it (though you can if you really want to!).\
\

\f0\b For New Users
\f1\b0 \
\
When you start MacCRO X, two windows will appear. One contains an oscilloscope trace (a horizontal line which will probably be moving); the other contains a large number of controls.\
\
The three tabs at the top of the control window switch between MacCRO X's three basic modes: \
\'a5 Oscilloscope: a plot of signal amplitude over time.\
\'a5 X/Y Plot: for stereo signals, plots the amplitude in one channel along one axis and the amplitude in the other channel along the other axis. If you don't have a stereo signal, you'll just see a diagonal line.\
\'a5 Spectrum analyser: plots amplitude over frequency.\
\
The other controls in the window \'d1 which vary depending on which of the three modes is selected \'d1 are used mostly to select what scale to use on each axis. There are a few extra controls for things such as triggering (in the oscilloscope, not implemented yet) and sample resolution (in the spectrum analyser). There are also controls in all three modes to enable and disable the grids (not implemented yet) and to freeze the display.\

\f0\b \
A Note About Amplitude
\f1\b0 \
\
The amplitude scales are not accurate. In fact, they may be completely wrong. They assume that the input hardware produces floating point numbers equal to the amplitude of the signal in volts, which is probably not true. A calibration option, like the one in the original MacCRO, will be added soon. Until that option is added (and you have used it), do not trust the voltages reported by MacCRO.\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs24 \cf0 $Header: /cvsroot/scopeapp/scopeapp/Readme.rtf,v 1.7 2003/02/14 12:00:03 narge Exp $}